And so that was Pretty simple,
I think the big thing is you have to be
aggressive about application state and
moving that out of components.
And so I'll talk about this more when I
get into the bunker of an architecture.
But in regards to state management
components should do two things.
One, it should consume just enough data
to satisfy and render its templates.
It should also only capture events
from the user and delegate that,
further up the stream into what
I would say, a logic layer.
Or into a service that
handles that business logic.
And so what you want, and so this is
really fundamental for state management.
Is you want to keep as much state
out of your components is possible.
How you accomplish that is by having very
razor-thin components and rich models.
And so I think the first thing
when it comes to state management
in an Angular application is
keep your components thin,
keep your business logic in services,
and abstract out as much as you can.
And the only thing a component should do
is consume just enough information
to render its template.
And if an event happens,
it captures that event and
then it delegates it
back out to a service.
And so
let me extend this just a bit further.
What do I mean by that?
And so if I go into the courses service,
you could imagine when
you have a collection,
you need to do typically kind of
four main things on a collection.
Create
I'm going to, Skip,
gonna do it slightly out of order, but
base is create, read, update, and delete.
So we'll do delete.
And on top of that,
what I'll do is instead of read,
I'll do all, so
give me all of this thing or
find, just give me one of these things.
And so if we go here, and we just
think about what this would look like.
So, for find, it would just take a course
ID and it would return a course.
For create,
it would just take an entire course,
update it would also
take an entire course.
And for Delete, it would take a course ID.
And then all,
it will take no parameters and
it's just going to
return this dot courses.
And so then what I can do is
I can set this to private.
So I really should try to avoid
accessing this directly but
expose it through a method.
And Now,
What I can do is I'm just going to do,
Well,
more, so I'll fill in,
just probably gonna do find,
but I will do CREATE COURSE, course so
we're just going through and
Fleshing this out.
So update, course, and
delete course.
And so this is where, now,
we're moving if I need to actually
modify a collection that is controlled or
that falls under
the preview of application state
versus I would say UI state.
Then we need to move that into a service.
So this is what I mean by moving
business logic out of your component.
So then if we hop into the courses
component, where it says save course
What we're going to do is we're
doing to do this.coursesService.
And We're going to do
something here real quick.
Cuz the question is, well,
if we're saving it, are we creating it?
Or are we deleting it?
So what I'm gonna do is I'm
gonna add course as a parameter.
This is of course uh-huh,
going to be the selected course.
But how do we know if this is a new or
an old course?
Well, I can just check course.id.
If it has an ID,
well guess what it exists, and
we can just go ahead and update.
But if it doesn't have an ID,
then we can go ahead and create.
And so notice now we're delegating
this out to the courses
service versus handling it
directly in our component.
Even though we're not doing much,
you can see we're starting to groom and
shift that functionality out.
so deletecourse, but
we're just gonna send in courseId.
There we go.
And now we are, Just
essentially taking this in
passing it to the service.
Now the other thing that
we can do this.courses,
And actually I wonder sorry,
not they're here.
So if you notice course services courses,
it's telling us this is private.
So it can't really stop you but
because once it gets compiled JavaScript
doesn't have a concept of access
modifiers, but instead we will do all.
Okay, so we have create, update, delete.
And so let's hop back into
the code form savecourse, yes.
So let me update the HTML.
So when we hit submit what
we need to do is we need
to just pass the selected course in.
So this should render now.
So if I go here, oops.
CoursesService.all is not a function.
I beg to differ,
let's see what I did wrong.
Mm-hm.
This looks like a function to me.
Let me check the, I'll just restart
the server and do it again.
Every once in a while,
you'll see that kinda your build
server will just be like [SOUND].
I know what to do, and so
I, on occasion will have to
restart the build server just
because it jumps tracks,
and so this may or may not be the case.
But we have been running for a bit so
I wanted to go ahead and just do that.
So should be going.
Let's hop back into our template.
There we go.
So it actually does seem to be working.
So now I select this.
And if we go here,
you notice delete course,
on console logs spell
wrong doesn't matter.
If I go and I create a new
Test, set this, well,
it didn't even exist, submit.
Create course, the reason being is
that it didn't, it doesn't have an id.
So, id of no.
So this is kind of a way
to reuse your same form.
Over and over, because actually nothing is
changing because the model is the same.
Or if I select it, and
then I submit notice it's update course.
And it's passing it in.
So we are deleting, updating, reading.
And so now what we've done is and
I think the most important
thing is we have abstracted out,
not only the data model,
but the functionality that's going
to manipulate that data model so
that we can use it in other
places in the application.
So this is really,
really important for state management,
that you have a single source of truth.
In that when you have application state
kind of spread and scattered across your
components and across your application,
well, what is the single source of truth?
How do you know what you
are referencing is in fact,
the single source of truth or
what you wanna know?
Or more importantly,
is because it's shared and it's mutable.
How do you know that when the object
that you're referencing is safe
from somebody else coming in and
mutating it without you knowing it.
And so, how you start to consolidate
that is one, you consolidate
your state into a single state tree
that you have one source of truth.
And then you essentially move to immutable
operations to allow for when you
modify that if somebody is referencing
an old for instance, data structure,
that it is not going to be kind
of changed under your feet.
An example of that is or
share mutable state,
anecdotally is if anybody has
ever been shopping on Amazon.
And, for instance, your significant
other in this case my wife, has the same
account and so there's been times where
I'm like, I really wanna buy this book.
And I put the book in the cart.
And I'm like, I need to buy some, some
air pods because these aren't working.
I go back into my cart, and
all of a sudden, there's a pair of
socks and a bouquet of flowers.
And this is I think a really good example
when I see this I'm like coursed shared
mutable state.
You've just affected my shopping cart.
And so this is how we start
from an application level,
start to hedge against that is moving
your state into a single place and
consolidate it and out of your components.